Advantages and Disadvantages of Electronic Mail
 
Email is a short word for electronic mail. You create texts and send them over a network 
of computers. The first emails go back to the 1960s. The invention has influenced our 
lives and emails have become a 
popular means of communication.
 
ADVANTAGES OF EMAILS
 

 
Emails are easy to use. You can organize your daily correspondence, send and 
receive electronic messages and save them on computers.
 

 
Emails are fast. They are delivered at once around the world. No other
 
form of 
written communication is as fast as an email.
 

 
The language used in emails is simple and informal.
 

 
When you reply to an email you can attach the original message so that when you 
answer the recipient knows what you are talking about. This is import
ant if you 
get hundreds of emails a day.
 

 
It is possible to send automated emails with a certain text. In such a way it is 
possible to tell the sender that you are on vacation. These emails are called auto 
responders.
 

 
Emails do not use paper. They are envir
onment friendly and save a lot of trees 
from being cut down.
 

 
Emails can also have pictures in them. You can send birthday cards or 
newsletters as emails.
 

 
Products can be advertised with emails. Companies can reach a lot of people and 
inform them in a short
 
time.
 
DISADVANTAGES OF EMAILS
 

 
Emails may carry viruses. These are small programs that harm your computer 
system. They can read out your email address book and send themselves to a 
number of people around the world.
 

 
Many people send unwanted emails to othe
rs. These are called spam mails. It 
takes a lot of time to filter out the unwanted emails from those that are really 
important.
 

 
Emails cannot really be used for official business documents. They may be lost 
and you cannot sign them.
 

 
Your mailbox may get fl
ooded with emails after a certain time so you have to 
empty it from time to time.
 
 
 
Source: http://www.english
-
online.at/media/emails/advantages
-
disadvantages
-
of
-
electronic
-
mail.htm
 
