                             
      COMSATS University Islamabad, 
Park Road, Chak Shahzad, Islamabad Pakistan


Software Requirements Specification
For 
Data Science Toolkit for Social Scientists
(Web Application)
Version 1.0

By
Umer Khan Wazir     CU/SP17-BCS-098/ISB
Yusra Fatima             CU/SP17-BCS-063/ISB

Supervisor
Mr. Qasim Malik 


Submission Date: 2nd March, 2020

Original Version 1.0  




Bachelor of Science in Computer Science (2017-2021)


Table of Content 





































Introduction
This document provides brief overview for System specification requirements for the Data Science related system for Social Scientists. It contains document purpose, product scope, audience, definition and overall view of the product.
Document Purpose
This SRS document contains the software functional requirement and its non-functional requirement. It will provide a brief overview of use-case, which will provide ease of understanding of software for others. It contains performance and minimum requirements that are needed to run the application smoothly on smart-phone. Our application will be web-based, but this document will allow ease of importing it.
Product Scope
Extraction of useful information from detailed and complex data is time consuming as we are surrounded by a lot of data these days. Our system will help user solve this problem by getting required information in no time by creating user-friendly environment. This system is especially for Social Scientists, who are always looking for useful information to perform analysis on it and get benefits from it. User of application can create his account on website. After that user will be able to upload the document from which they want to extract information. After uploading the document, using OCR techniques we will convert document into editable form for users. User can now perform update or delete operation on document before applying Data Science Tools. User will be also provided data cleaning tools so that they can clean document before implementing data science tools. After processing the data, Data Science Toolkit will provide user many options like text summarization, topic modeling, sentiment analysis and many other to perform on uploaded document. Using toolkit, system will provide user summery of uploaded document, user can upload multiple documents and system will categorize documents, system can determine whether writer attitude towards particular topic, product etc. is positive, negative or neutral. System will provide user document summary, user can go to topics in document in which he/she is interested, user can search what this document is about and many more. System will provide user report of the tools applied on document. User can keep history of document, so he/she can access it any time. User can also maintain repository and share their content with other users. User have to create and manage his/her account before accessing Data Science Toolkit
Intended Audience
This document is intended for developers, users (social scientists) and testers.
It will help developers to create and develop the FRs for the system. User can view use case as a guide to understand and learn the application. Testers can use the document to validate the FRs based on the dependencies on the software.
Definitions, Acronyms and Abbreviations
Following are the definitions, acronyms and abbreviations used:

Table 1: Definitions, Acronyms and Abbreviations


Overall Description
This section of the SRS describes the product perspective and in which environment it will be deployed on. It also contains software assumption and dependencies that may help the developers in coding. It will also help testers to test the software based on those dependencies. This section user characteristics and general constraint on the system.
Operating Environment
The application will be web-based and it can run on computers, laptops and android phones. It supports windows, mac and android operating system. Internet connection is necessary to run this application because it is web application. This application can run on almost all the modern devices.
General Constraints
This is web application so internet connectivity is must to run it. It will run on windows 7 and greater versions. Application will not run on windows version less than 7. It also does not support older versions of mac and android.
Requirement Elicitation Techniques.
Following are the requirement elicitation Techniques:
Brainstorming Session: For gathering and creating new ideas for the document.
Document Analysis: To gather information for Functional Requirements and Non-functional Requirements.
Use Cases.
Following are the use cases:
Module 1: User Profiling


Module 2: Data Collection and Pre-Processing


Module 3: Development and Integration of Data Science Tools


Module 4: Report



 Module 5: Data Repository Management and Sharing



Use Case(s) Diagram:
Following are the use case diagrams:


Figure 1: Use case Diagram (1/2)


Figure 2: Use case diagram (2/2)
 Use Case(s):
Use Case(s) (Tabular):
	The tabular forms of use cases are given below:
Module 1: User Management

 UC 1.1: Sign In

Sign Up




Remember me


Forgot password


Change Password

Add information
Edit information

View information
Log out

Module 2: Data Collection and Pre-Processing

Upload Document

Edit Document

Delete Document

View Cleaning tools





Removal of extra spaces

Convert Case

Lowercase

Uppercase

Proper case

Remove non-alphabetic characters


Module 3: Development and Integration of Data science tools

View Info

Text Summarization

Manual Summary

Analyze 

Automatic Summary

Topic Modeling

Sentiment Analysis


Module 4: Report

Save Report


View Report

Delete Report

Delete Report

Download Report





Module 5: Data Repository Management and Sharing

Store document in repository


Download document

Edit Document

Share Document 


5. Specific Requirements
Following are the functional requirements of Data Science Toolkit for Social Scientists
            FR 1: Email Address
            FR 2: Password
            FR 3: Log in button
            FR 4: Gmail
            FR 5: Password
            FR 6: Confirm Password

            FR 7: Email
            FR 8: Sign up button
            FR 9: Email verification
FR 10: New Password
FR 11: Confirm Password
FR 12: Submit button
FR 13: Remember user email

FR 14: Remember Login Information
FR 15: Sign in button
FR 16: Old Password

5.FR 17: New Password
FR 18: Confirm Password
FR 19: Submit button

FR 20: Name
FR 21: Profession
FR 22: Abouts
FR 23: Nationality
FR 24: Date of Birth
FR 25: Edit Nationality
FR 26: Edit Name
FR 27: Edit Date of birth
FR 28: Edit Profession
FR 29: Documents
FR 30: Delete Shared Documents from Profile
FR 31: View Documents

FR 32: View Profile Picture
FR 33: Log out
FR 34: Confirm logout
FR 35: Change Profile Picture
FR 36: Search
FR 37: View Profile
FR 38: Select Profile
FR 39: Search Button
FR 40: Upload document
FR 41: Upload PDF
FR 42: Upload Scanned Images
FR 43: Web Scrapping
FR 44: Upload from epub
FR 45: Upload from mobi
FR 46: Upload from divu
FR 47: Editable Document
FR 48: Edit Text
FR 49: Delete Text
FR 50: Update Text
FR 51: Data Cleaning Tools
FR 52: Remove extra spaces
FR 53: Uppercase
FR 54: Lowercase
FR 55: Proper case
FR 56: Remove non-alphabetic characters
FR 57: Data Science Toolkit
FR 58: Select Document
FR 59: Text Summarization
FR 60: Automatic Sentence Size
FR 61: Manual Sentence Size
FR 62: Analyze document
FR 63: Save Text Summarization Result
FR 64: Download Text Summarization Result
FR 65: Paste Text for Text Summarization
FR 66: Select document for text summarization
FR 67: Delete Text for Text Summarization
FR 68: Topic Modeling
FR 69: Topic Modeling Result button
FR 70: Save Topic Modeling Result
FR 71: Download Topic Modeling Result
FR 72: Upload documents for Topic Modeling
FR 73: Stemming and Lemmatization
FR 74: Topics
FR 75: Document Category
FR 76: Sentiment Analysis
FR 77: Edit Text for sentiment analysis
FR 78: Paste Text for Sentiment Analysis
FR 79: Upload document from computer for Sentiment Analysis
FR 80: Select document from repository for Sentiment Analysis
FR 81: Result Button for Sentiment Analysis
FR 82: Graph of Sentiment Analysis
FR 83: Download Sentiment Analysis Result

FR 84: Save Sentiment Analysis Result
FR 85: Editable form
FR 86: Report
FR 87: Open Report
FR 88: Download Report

FR 89: Repository and Sharing
FR 90: Share Button
FR 91: View document in Repository
FR 92: Upload button in repository section
FR 93: Feed
FR 94: Upload button in feed

Non-functional Requirements
Following are the NFRs for the system.
Performance Requirements
The performance requirements of Data Science Toolkit for Social Scientists are as follows:
Response Time
The system would not be slow in most cases but due to some algorithms like topic modeling it may take some time for processing results but the System average response time will be 2ms and maximum would be 5 min.
Throughput
The system would be able to respond quickly in most cases by handling 1000 alerts per second.
Capacity
It will be able to accommodate more than ten thousand user data.
Reliability
Following is the reliability of the system.
Availability
System will be available 24/7.
Mean Time Between Failures (MTBF) 
The mean time between failures would be less than 6hours
Mean Time to Repair (MTTR) 
The mean time to repair would be Less than 6 hours
Maximum Bugs or Defect Rate 
The system will achieve such a standard in which it experiences 2 bugs per hundred of lines of code at maximum.

Usability
Application will confirm certain common International usability standards such as user interface design and usability assurance. Usability assurance standards provide guidelines and some requirements on how to prepare, run, and document usability tests to make sure that product is usable.

Design Constraints
Following are the design constraints of the system.
Visual Studio Code
The software tool would be used to develop the web application. Its latest version 16.4 will be used to make this application.
Node.js/Flask
This software tool would be used to develop the database of the system.
Security
System should have password encryption. The database will not allow an authorized user to modify the data and thus it will be hard to get into the system.



Gantt chart


Figure 3: Gantt chart
Conclusion
This document will help the developer and customer to understand the details of the application as a whole including all its requirements. The document will not only analyze the requirements but also the system.
References

Web links:



Book links:

Big Data Glossary A Guide to Public Data, First Edition, Pete Warden.

https://www.amazon.com/Big-Data-Glossary-Guide-Generation/dp/1449314597

Data Source Handbook A Guide to the New Generation of Data Tools, First edition, Pete Warden.

https://www.amazon.com/Data-Source-Handbook-Guide-Public/dp/1449303145

Plagiarism Report
Following is the plagiarism report of the document:


